Accelerate 1.0 blog (#2341)
huggingface/blog: accelerate-v1.md

authors:
- user: muellerzr
- user: marcsun13
- user: BenjaminB
---

# Accelerate 1.0.0

## What is Accelerate today?

3.5 years ago, [Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate) was a simple framework aimed at making training on multi-GPU and TPU systems easier
by having a low-level abstraction that simplified a *raw* PyTorch training loop:

![Sylvain's tweet announcing accelerate](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/muellerzr/presentations/master/talks/ai_dev_2024/sylvain_tweet.JPG)

Since then, Accelerate has expanded into a multi-faceted library aimed at tackling many of the common problems with both
large-scale training and large models in an age where 405 billion parameters (Llama) are the new language model size. This involves:

* [A flexible low-level training API](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/basic_tutorials/migration), allowing for training on 6 different hardware accelerators (CPU, GPU, TPU, XPU, NPU, MLU) while maintaining 99% of your original training loop
* An easy-to-use [command-line interface](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/basic_tutorials/launch) aimed at configuring and running scripts across different hardware configurations

> * The birthplace of `device_map="auto"` and [Big Model Inference](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/big_modeling), allowing users to not only perform inference on LLMs but now also aiding in training LLLms on small compute through techniques like parameter-efficient fine-tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The birthplace of [Big Model Inference](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/big_modeling) or `device_map="auto"`, allowing users to not only perform inference on LLMs with multi-devices but now also aiding in training LLMs on small compute through techniques like parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT)
```

* `accelerate.utils.is_tpu_available` should be replaced with `accelerate.utils.is_torch_xla_available`
* `accelerate.utils.modeling.shard_checkpoint` should be replaced with `split_torch_state_dict_into_shards` from the `huggingface_hub` library
* `accelerate.tqdm.tqdm()` no longer accepts `True`/`False` as the first argument, and instead `main_process_only` should be passed in as a named argument
* `ACCELERATE_DISABLE_RICH` is no longer a valid environmental variable, and instead one should manually enable `rich` traceback by setting `ACCELERATE_ENABLE_RICH=1`
* The FSDP setting `fsdp_backward_prefetch_policy` has been replaced with `fsdp_backward_prefetch`

## Closing thoughts

Thank you so much for using Accelerate, it's been amazing watching a small idea turn into over 100 million downloads and nearly 300,000 **daily** downloads over the last few years.

With this release candidate, we hope to give the community an opportunity to try it out and have time to migrate over to 1.0 before the official release.

> Please stay tuned for more information by keeping an eye on the [github](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerat) and on [socials](https://x.com/TheZachMueller)!

Reviewer: small typo in the link 
```suggestion
Please stay tuned for more information by keeping an eye on the [github](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate) and on [socials](https://x.com/TheZachMueller)!
```

---
title: "Accelerate 1.0, a staple across the 🤗 ecosystem"

> thumbnail: /blog/assets/20_accelerate_library/accelerate_diff.png

Reviewer 2: I wonder if something more specific to the 1.0 release could be used.

authors:
- user: muellerzr
- user: marcsun13
- user: BenjaminB
---

> # Accelerate 1.0, a staple across the 🤗 ecosystem

Reviewer 2: v1.0 is not a staple just yet, is it?

> ## What is Accelerate today?

Reviewer 2: This section contains no links even though there would be a few opportunities. Not sure if this is a conscious choice to not distract the user or not. I think I don't mind it actually, just wanted to bring it up.

Author: Thanks, tried to add some links to documentation when applicable

3.5 years ago, Accelerate was a simple framework aimed at making training on multi-GPU and TPU systems easier
by having a low-level abstraction that simplified a *raw* PyTorch training loop:

![Sylvain's tweet announcing accelerate](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/muellerzr/presentations/master/talks/ai_dev_2024/sylvain_tweet.JPG)

Since then, Accelerate has expanded into a multi-faceted library aimed at tackling many of the common problems with both
large-scale training and large models in an age where 405 billion parameters are the new language model size. This involves:

* A flexible low-level training API, allowing for training on 6 different hardware accelerators (CPU, GPU, TPU, XPU, NPU, MLU) while maintaining 99% of your original training loop
* An easy-to-use command-line interface aimed at configuring and running scripts across different hardware configurations

> * The birthplace of `device_map="auto"` and Big Model Inference, allowing users to not only perform inference on large models but now also aid in training large models on small compute through techniques like PEFT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The birthplace of `device_map="auto"` and Big Model Inference, allowing users to not only perform inference on large models but now also aiding in training large models on small compute through techniques like PEFT
```

I think "aiding" is grammatically correct here, but might be wrong. IMO, if it's "aid", the implied sentence would be:

> The birthplace of `device_map="auto"` and Big Model Inference, allowing users to not only perform inference on large models but now also **allowing users to** aid in training large models ...

whereas "aiding" implies:

> The birthplace of `device_map="auto"` and Big Model Inference, allowing users to not only perform inference on large models but now also aiding **users** in training large models ...

Content-wise, the leap from `device_map="auto"` to PEFT is unclear to me, and I guess users might not know what PEFT means, so perhaps spell it out.

> These three facets have allowed Accelerate to become the foundation of **nearly every framework at Hugging Face**!

Reviewer 2: I wonder what "framework" implies here (also in the next sentence), maybe use the more neutral "package"?

> As the framework has been stable for nearly a year, we're excited to announce that as of today we've published **the first of a series of release candidates for Accelerate 1.0.0**!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the framework has been stable for nearly a year, we're excited to announce that as of today we've published **the first release candidates for Accelerate 1.0.0**!
```

Maybe there won't be more than one RC?

This blog will detail:

> 1. Why did we decide to do 1.0? (Aside from the API is "stable")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Why did we decide to do 1.0?
```

Not sure that this adds much and you go on to mention the stable API anyway.

2. What is the future for Accelerate, and where do we see PyTorch as a whole going?
3. What are the breaking changes and deprecations that occurred, and how can you migrate over easily?

## Why 1.0?

The plans for releasing 1.0.0 have been in the works for over a year now. The API has been roughly at a point where we wanted,
centering on the `Accelerator` side simplifying much of the configuration and making it more extensible. However, we knew
there were a few missing pieces before we could call the "base" of `Accelerate` "feature complete":

* Integrating FP8 support of both MS-AMP and `TransformersEngine` (read more [here](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/tree/main/benchmarks/fp8/transformer_engine) and [here](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/tree/main/benchmarks/fp8/ms_amp))
* Supporting orchestration of multiple models when using DeepSpeed ([Experimental](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed_multiple_model))

> * `torch.compile` support for the big model inference API

Reviewer 2: A link would be nice.

Author: It's an OOTB change with `torch` 2.5, so made a note

* Integrating `torch.distributed.pipelining` as an [alternative distributed inference mechanic](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/main/en/usage_guides/distributed_inference#memory-efficient-pipeline-parallelism-experimental)
* Integrating `torchdata.StatefulDataLoader` as an [alternative dataloader mechanic](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/blob/main/examples/by_feature/checkpointing.py)

As of this release, we can now say that these items are supported in the framework and their APIs are relatively stable.

> By flipping the switch to 1.0, a safe and stable fallback for users, we can be prepared for some potentially radical

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused by this sentence. Does it mean that from the user side, starting from 1.0, the API will be stable and the "radical rewrites" won't affect that?

I think what you could mean is that with the changes made for the 1.0 release, accelerate is prepared to tackle the integration of new tech while keeping the user facing API stable. Is that it?

Author: Nice way to put it, copying it in there

rewrites and changes in the codebase as new technologies come to fruition.

> ## The future of Accelerate

Reviewer 2: This section gives a good outlook but it feels a bit detached from the 1.0 announcement. All of this content would be the same even without the 1.0 announcement, right? Perhaps there is a way to tie this outlook back to the announcement at the end of the section? I think it doesn't have to be a super deep connection, even something like "Now that 1.0 is almost done, we can focus on these things" or so would help.

As previously mentioned, we're going through with this change because we foresee some radical changes in the PyTorch ecosystem very soon:

* As part of the multiple-model DeepSpeed support, we found that while generally how DeepSpeed is currently *could* work, some heavy changes to the overall API may eventually be needed as we work to support simple wrappings to prepare models for any multiple-model training scenario.

> * With the [torchao](https://github.com/pytorch/ao) and [torchtitan](https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan) picking up steam they hint at the future of PyTorch as a whole. Hinting at more native support for FP8 training, a new distributed sharding API, and support for a new version of FSDP, FSDPv2, we predict that much of the internals and general usage API of Accelerate will need to change (hopefully not too drastic) to meet these needs as the frameworks slowly become more stable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With [torchao](https://github.com/pytorch/ao) and [torchtitan](https://github.com/pytorch/torchtitan) picking up steam, they hint at the future of PyTorch as a whole. Aiming at more native support for FP8 training, a new distributed sharding API, and support for a new version of FSDP, FSDPv2, we predict that much of the internals and general usage API of Accelerate will need to change (hopefully not too drastic) to meet these needs as the frameworks slowly become more stable.
```

I know "Aiming" and "hinting" are not the same, but I wanted to avoid "Hinting" just right after "hint" being used in the previous sentence.

From a user's perspective, it's also not quite clear what I should take away from this paragraph, as it seems to be talking about accelerate internals. Maybe focus more on the fact that accelerate aims at making these new features easy to use? Most users won't care if that requires drastic internal changes or not.

> * Riding on `torchao`/FP8, many new frameworks are bringing in different ideas and implementations on how to make FP8 training work and be stable (`transformer_engine`, `torchao`, `MS-AMP`, `nanotron`, to name a few). Our aim with Accelerate is to house each of these implementations in one place with easy configurations, to let users explore and test out each one as they please intending to find the ones that wind up being the most stable and flexible in the end. It's a rapidly accelerating (no pun intended) field of research, especially with NVIDIA's FP4 training support on the way, and we want to make sure that not only can we support each of these methods, but aim to provide **solid benchmarks for each** to show their tendencies out-of-the-box (with minimal tweaking) compared to native BF16 training

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Riding on `torchao`/FP8, many new frameworks are bringing in different ideas and implementations on how to make FP8 training work and be stable (`transformer_engine`, `torchao`, `MS-AMP`, `nanotron`, to name a few). Our aim with Accelerate is to house each of these implementations in one place with easy configurations, to let users explore and test out each one as they please, intending to find the ones that wind up being the most stable and flexible in the end. It's a rapidly accelerating (no pun intended) field of research, especially with NVIDIA's FP4 training support on the way, and we want to make sure that not only can we support each of these methods, but aim to provide **solid benchmarks for each** to show their tendencies out-of-the-box (with minimal tweaking) compared to native BF16 training
```

We're extremely excited about the future of distributed training in the PyTorch ecosystem, and we want to make sure that Accelerate is there every step of the way providing a lower barrier to entry for these new techniques. By doing so, we hope the community will continue to experiment and learn together as we find the best techniques for training and scaling larger models on more complex computing systems.

## How to try it out

To try the first release candidate for Accelerate today, please use one of the following methods:

* pip:

```bash

> pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate@v1.0.0.rc0

Reviewer 2: Would it not be better to wait for the pypi release and then use a pip install of that?

```

* Docker:

```bash
docker pull huggingface/accelerate:gpu-release-1.0.0.rc
```

Valid release tags are:
* `gpu-release-1.0.0.rc`
* `cpu-release-1.0.0.rc`
* `gpu-fp8-transformerengine-release-1.0.0.rc`
* `gpu-deepspeed-release-1.0.0.rc`

## Migration assistance

Below are the full details for all deprecations that are being enacted as part of this release:

* Passing in `dispatch_batches`, `split_batches`, `even_batches`, and `use_seedable_sampler` to the `Accelerator()` should now be handled by creating an `accelerate.utils.DataLoaderConfiguration()` and passing this to the `Accelerator()` instead (`Accelerator(dataloader_config=DataLoaderConfiguration(...))`)
* `Accelerator().use_fp16` and `AcceleratorState().use_fp16` have been removed, this should be replaced by checking `accelerator.mixed_precision == "fp16"`

> * `Accelerator().autocast()` no longer accepts a `cache_enabled` argument. Instead, an `AutocastKwargs()` instance should be used which handles this flag (among others)

Reviewer 2: How to pass `AutocastKwargs`?

* `accelerate.utils.is_tpu_available` should be replaced with `accelerate.utils.is_torch_xla_available`
* `accelerate.utils.modeling.shard_checkpoint` should be replaced with `split_torch_state_dict_into_shards` from the `huggingface_hub` library

> * `accelerate.tqdm.tqdm()` no longer accepts `True`/`False` as the first argument, and instead `main_process_only` should be passed in as an explicit kwarg

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `accelerate.tqdm.tqdm()` no longer accepts `True`/`False` as the first argument, and instead `main_process_only` should be passed in as a named argument
```

* `ACCELERATE_DISABLE_RICH` is no longer a valid environmental variable, and instead one should manually enable `rich` traceback by setting `ACCELERATE_ENABLE_RICH=1`
* The FSDP setting `fsdp_backward_prefetch_policy` has been replaced with `fsdp_backward_prefetch`

## Closing thoughts

Thank you so much for using Accelerate, it's been amazing watching a small idea turn into over 100 million downloads and nearly 300,000 **daily** downloads over the last few years.

> As users test out the release candidates, we will slowly roll out a few more versions before finally pushing the 1.0 release to give you all enough time to fully migrate and resolve any lingering deprecations.

Reviewer 2: Is it a given that there will be multiple RCs? I thought it's more about correcting potential issues that come up, not really about providing more time to migrate (which a single RC is able to do).

> Please stay tuned for more information!

Reviewer 2: How can I stay tuned?
